when Newton came up with his laws there
was a widespread belief derived from
Aristotle that there were two sets of
rules for the physical world it was
called the superlunary and the sublunary
spheres it was named that because the
barrier was supposed to be at the Moon
where the moon's orbit is there starts
to obtain a whole new set of of laws and
the reason people thought this is quite
reasonable you look at the stars and
they're following these very regular
patterns that we can chart and know more
and more through observations you look
at things around here they don't move
like that kind of clockwork surely when
Newton comes out with the prinkipia for
the first time we now think oh he
discovered gravity yes of course he
outlines the way of of calculating the
force of gravity between two masses but
at a much much deeper level what he does
is he shatters the barrier between the
sublunar and the super lunar spheres
because now sh underlying Unity right
here's the three rules that will govern
not only the Arc of a comet across the
sky but the Descent of an apple from a
tree